In the new movie The Internship, Vince Vaughn and Owen Wilson play middle-aged out of work salesman that somehow land Google internships. That's a sharpie by the way, genius. 

That's my fault. 

The movie focuses on a fierce competition among the interns to get full-time jobs at Google, but in real life, the challenge is just landing a Google internship. 

It was immediately captivating. 

New York native and Yale student, Florian Collins Berger is an intern for the marketing department. This seemed like the smartest place to pick up a lot of different skills in one summer. I've never been put in an environment where work and play are so sort of seamlessly integrated and still felt productive. 

He is one of the 1,500 interns selected this summer out of a record high pool of more than 40,000 applicants. At that rate, it's harder to get into the Google internship program than into Harvard or Stanford. Kyle Ewing heads the internship program. 

There's no best way to get into Google, at the end of the day we're looking for students who are smart, who are creative, who are leaders, who are passionate inside and outside of work, who care about their community and who really care about technology. 

Applicants must be full-time students, if they make it past the written application phase, they go through a series of phone and face-to-face interviews with questions reportedly ranging from coding to quirky. In addition to the famous Google perks like free food, campus bikes and gym access, interns also get paid a competitive wage. 

The average Google intern makes about 5,800 dollars per month. If you're a software engineer intern at Google, you're making about 6,500 dollars per month, even more and that's upwards of 75,000 dollars per year. 75,000 dollars per year is much higher than the average U.S. worker. Interns are expected to complete a project and get hands on experience. 

Even in my first few weeks, I'd put out code that everyone was using and it was really cool to call my mom and get to say like "Mom, Mom look what I'm doing!" 

Software engineer Kitt Vanderwater, interned for Google for two summers, and is now a full-time employee. As soon as I started my senior year I knew I'd have a job at Google and that was really great peace of mind. 

Something most interns are hoping to get when they return for their senior year. In San Francisco, I'm Kara Tsuboi, CNET.com for CBS News.